---
layout: post
title: 'Week One: Day Four'
date: '2016-01-14T21:32:35-05:00'
tags:
- bitmaker
- bitmaker labs
- week 1 day 4
- damn rovers
- ruby
- coding
- programming
- salad
- classes
- objects
- object-oriented programming
- oop
tumblr_url: http://karenjho.com/post/137320318555/week-one-day-four
---
For the past three days, I have had few hiccups understanding and executing the Bitmaker assignments. After the morning’s lesson, and re-reading of my notes, I can usually work through the afternoon’s assignments smoothly. In fact, after churning out four of yesterday’s exercises, I was feeling a little like a coding ninja. (A baby coding ninja, but a ninja nonetheless).Today, that ninja feeling was gone.But let’s start at the beginning, ok?The morning started well with some overnight oats. It was my first time trying this recipe and it was delicious. Topped with coconut Greek yogurt and strawberries, the oats were like a maple-cashew butter-flaxseed-oat pudding. 8/10, would make again.Mina started the lesson with an overview of the different programming paradigms: procedural, object-oriented, and functional. I won’t get into the paradigms here, except to say that Ruby, like many modern web development languages, is object-oriented. It is important to grasp the idea of objects in Ruby, because everything you build, interact with, and use is an object.An object is made up of three things:NameStateBehaviourState is everything that an object is: properties, traits, characteristics, etc. Behaviour is everything that an object does, or can do. In Ruby, the things that make up an object’s state are its attributes. The things that it does are its methods. Attributes are, by default, private. Methods are public.Image from the Huffington PostTake a person, for example. The person’s name is Benedict, and he is an actor with curly, dark hair. But you don’t know those things unless you ask him. The first method to perform could be what_is_name, which asks what the person’s name is and gives you the answer. Another method could be curly_hair, which asks if the person has curly hair and tells you yes or no (true or false).Which brings us to the next concept: class. How did you know that you could use the curly_hair method with Benedict? How did you even know that he had hair, or that the hair could be curly? Well, it’s because we know Benedict is a person, and people can have hair, and that hair can be curly. You could say that Benedict is part of the Person class. Or rather, he is a specific instance of a Person. And the idea of a person is an object in the Person class.Enjoying my Southwestern chopped salad. Ain’t she a beaut?After reviewing classes—including how to create them, assign objects, and set attributes and methods—the projector stopped working. So we broke for lunch. There were murmurs that the afternoon’s assignments would be difficult, but I had my salad to eat so I ignored them.Halfway through my salad, I decided to read through the first assignment. It looked pretty close to what we had done in class, so I worked through it as I ate. I wrote my code, checked to see if others were on the same page, committed my work to GitHub, and moved onto the second assignment. The second assignment was themed around the Mars rovers.You guys? F*** those rovers.Image from NASAThis problem had it all: logic and math, understanding how classes work and how to get variables in and out of them, loops and iterations, and being very specific how you wrote your code—because a missing = or extra ’ could be the death of those stupid rovers (or at least your Ruby program). I worked on a part of the problem by myself before realizing that most of us were struggling. A group of us broke off (and I optimistically brought along my salad, never to be finished).I will say this: when the instructor tells you to work in a team, work in a team. Teamwork was the hero of the afternoon. Most of us made it through, delivering the damn rovers to where they were supposed to go. But we were no longer fresh-faced, spry code ninjas. No, we were battle-worn, beleaguered rover jockeys.Capping off the day, we all headed over to SPiN for drinks and ping pong. I loved getting to know my fellow Bitmaker students better, especially their humour. I’m sure it’s only going to get more fun as the work gets harder.
