---
layout: post
title: 'Week Two: Day One'
date: '2016-01-18T22:32:50-05:00'
tags:
- week 2 day 1
- bitmaker
- bitmaker labs
- mason jar salads
- grace hopper
- debugging
- code bugs
- coding
- programming
tumblr_url: http://karenjho.com/post/137596136700/week-two-day-one
---
Week two is here! Team Gort survived! Only… eight weeks of Bitmaker to go! Before I get into W2D1, let me give you a run-down of my weekend.Saturday: Woke up at 8. Put in laundry. Coded. Made breakfast. Coded while eating breakfast. Frank woke up. Took out and hung laundry. Coded some more. Went to V and C’s for a whisky tasting. Drank scotch and hung out with their awesome French bulldogs and baby. Played Ticket to Ride. Went home. Dropped phone on the ground (glass screen shattered). Coded. Bed.Sunday: Woke up at 8. Showered. Church. Got phone screen repaired (thanks, Toronto Repair!). Lunch with friends. Costco run. Visited Frank’s sister and brother-in-law. Met their cat, Arthur. Coded. Dinner at in-laws. Took the spicy noodle challenge. Didn’t die. Went home. Coded. Bed.Why so much coding over the weekend? Well, to build my beautiful Customer Relationship Management (CRM) program, of course. Featuring A++++ howling wolf ASCII art, stolen from the Internet! Sure, the program is a glorified address book, but I built it with my own hands. My own two hands.I’m glad to have worked on the CRM over the weekend, because there really wasn’t any time to work on it today. We jumped straight into the next chunk of curriculum: bugs.Did you know that “bug,” as a term describing glitches or malfunctions in code, was popularized by Admiral Grace Hopper? She was part of the team that worked on the Harvard Mark I computer, invented the first compiler for a computer language, and inspired the development of COBOL, the first programming language designed to be used for business applications by laypersons who didn’t necessarily have a background in machine code.* When she was working on the Mark II, the team discovered a moth stuck in the computer, preventing it from working. Admiral Hopper joked that the team was literally “debugging” the system.Yup, an actual moth.Besides learning about the origins of bugs, we also brainstormed different ways of avoiding bugs in code. There are many things you can do, including running the code frequently, using a good code editor, being consistent, and pair programming. But the most important and basic way to avoid bugs is to READ YOUR CODE. Hopefully, you will see if what you wrote makes sense, or is missing punctuation, or has typos.For our assignment today, we practiced Test-Driven Development (TDD). In TDD, you write a test that is a basic way of seeing if your code will do what you want it do. Then you run the test and watch it fail. Then you write code, and run the test again. If it fails, you revise or write more code. You run your test again—over and over until your test succeeds. Then you write a new test.Coding can be a slog, and TDD gives you goals to work towards while coding. It also hopefully prevents you from having to read through massive volumes of code to find a bug, or having to re-write a lot of code to solve a bug. The tests themselves should not only test the standard uses; what are the “edge” cases where a user might uncover a bug through atypical use?Tonight, I prepped more salads for the week. This time, we have chicken-apple-radish-cucumber-avocado. With Frank and I both in school, we are short on cash and time, and these salads have proven to help save both. I just need to find an afternoon snack that will give a more solid boost. Every day at 4pm, I’m nearly starving. Lately, I’ve been snacking on almonds and raisins. Anyone have other snack ideas? Please share!*Basically, Admiral Hopper was an all-around badass. Read the Wikipedia article about her here and watch the Google doodle celebrating her accomplishments.
